Pre-built binaries
==================

Docker images of `master` and of the tagged versions are
available directly from [Github](https://github.com/yrutschle/sslh/pkgs/container/sslh).

Windows binaries for Cygwin are graciously produced by
nono303 on his [repository](https://github.com/nono303/sslh).


Compile and install
===================

Dependencies
------------

`sslh` uses:

* [libconfig](http://www.hyperrealm.com/libconfig/).
  For Debian this is contained in package `libconfig-dev`.
  You can compile with or without it using USELIBCONFIG in the Makefile.

* [libwrap](http://packages.debian.org/source/unstable/tcp-wrappers).
  For Debian, this is contained in packages `libwrap0-dev`.
  You can compile with or without it using USELIBWRAP in the Makefile.

* [libsystemd](http://packages.debian.org/source/unstable/libsystemd-dev), in package `libsystemd-dev`.
  You can compile with or without it using USESYSTEMD in the Makefile.

* [libcap](http://packages.debian.org/source/unstable/libcap-dev), in package `libcap-dev`.
  You can compile with or without it using USELIBCAP in the Makefile

* [libconfig++-dev](https://packages.debian.org/bookworm/libconfig++-dev), in package `lìbconfig++-dev`
    
* libbsd, to enable to change the process name (as shown in `ps`,
  so each forked process shows what protocol and what connection it is serving),
  which requires `libbsd` at runtime, and `libbsd-dev` at compile-time.

* libpcre2, in package `libpcre2-dev`.
  You can compile with or without it using ENABLE_REGEX in the Makefile.

* libev-dev, in package `libev-dev`.
  If you build a binary specifically and do not build `sslh-ev`, you don't need this.


For OpenSUSE, these are contained in packages libconfig9 and
libconfig-dev in repository
<http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/multimedia:/libs/openSUSE_12.1/>

For Fedora, you'll need packages `libconfig` and `libconfig-devel`:

    yum install libconfig libconfig-devel

If you want to rebuild `sslh-conf.c` (after a `make distclean` for example),
you will also need to add [conf2struct](https://www.rutschle.net/tech/conf2struct/README.html)
(v1.5) to your path.

The test scripts are written in Perl, and will require
`IO::Socket::INET6` (`libio-socket-inet6-perl` in Debian).


Compilation
-----------
First you have to run `./configure`  in the _**./sslh**_ directory. After this, 
the Makefile is created, and you can do your configuration changes in the Makefile. 
After each run of ./configure, those changes are gone and the Makefile is recreated.

There are a couple of configuration options at the beginning of the Makefile: 

* `# override undefine HAVE_LANDLOCK` if you uncomment this line, sslh will be compiled
  without landlock. This works with gcc versions < 12. Otherwise, if your system has
  linux/landlock.h in the include path, the configure script creates a _**config.h**_ file, 
  which defines HAVE_LANDLOCK. It is not enough, to set this to 0, you must delete it, 
  when you don't wish to have landlock in your binary.
  
* `USELIBWRAP` compiles support for host access control (see `hosts_access(3)`),
  you will need `libwrap` headers and library to compile (`libwrap0-dev` in Debian).

* `USELIBCONFIG` compiles support for the configuration file.
  You will need `libconfig` headers to compile (`libconfig8-dev` in Debian).

* `USESYSTEMD` compiles support for using systemd socket activation.
  You will need `systemd` headers to compile (`systemd-devel` in Fedora).

* `USELIBBSD` compiles support for updating the process name (as shown by `ps`).

* `USELIBCAP` compiles support for libcap, which allows to inherit capabilities to 
  daughter-processes, which run as restricted users. You need this, when you wish to 
  make sure, that the --user= parameter can be used, without setting capabilities etc.
  to your binaries, to make this work.

Now you can do either a plain `make` to create the binaries, or you can do an 
`make install` to create the binaries and install them.


Generating the configuration parser
-----------------------------------

The configuration file and command line parser is generated by `conf2struct`,
from `sslhconf.cfg`, which generates `sslh-conf.c` and `sslh-conf.h`.
The resulting files are included in the source
so `sslh` can be built without `conf2struct` installed.

Further, to prevent build issues,
`sslh-conf.[ch]` has no dependency to `sslhconf.cfg` in the Makefile.
In the event of adding configuration settings,
they need to be regenerated using `make c2s`.


Binaries
--------

The Makefile produces three different executables:
`sslh-fork`, `sslh-select` and `sslh-ev`:

* `sslh-fork` forks a new process for each incoming connection.
  It is well-tested and very reliable, but incurs the overhead of many processes.  
  If you are going to use `sslh` for a "small" setup
  (less than a dozen ssh connections and a low-traffic https server)
  then `sslh-fork` is probably more suited for you.

* `sslh-select` uses only one thread, which monitors all connections at once.
  It only incurs a 16 byte overhead per connection.
  Also, if it stops, you'll lose all connections,
  which means you can't upgrade it remotely.
  If you are going to use `sslh` on a "medium" setup (a few hundreds of connections),
  or if you are on a system where forking is expensive (e.g. Windows),
  `sslh-select` will be better.

* `sslh-ev` is similar to `sslh-select`, but uses `libev` as a backend.
  This allows using specific kernel APIs that
  allow to manage thousands of connections concurrently.


Installation
------------

* In general:
  ```sh
  ./configure
  make
  cp sslh-fork /usr/local/sbin/sslh
  cp basic.cfg /etc/sslh.cfg
  vi /etc/sslh.cfg
  ```
* For Debian:
  ```sh
  cp scripts/etc.init.d.sslh /etc/init.d/sslh
  ```
* For CentOS:
  ```sh
  cp scripts/etc.rc.d.init.d.sslh.centos /etc/rc.d/init.d/sslh
  ```

You might need to create links in /etc/rc<x>.d so that the server
start automatically at boot-up, e.g. under Debian:
```sh
update-rc.d sslh defaults
```

